# Purpose of this database in the context of the startup, Sparkify, and their analytical goals.

- Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. 

- They'd like a data engineer to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis. The goal is to create a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. Then test the database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

# State and justify your database schema design and ETL pipeline.

- To complete the project, I will need to define fact and dimension tables for a star schema for a particular analytic focus, and write an ETL pipeline that transfers data from files in two local directories into these tables in Postgres using Python and SQL.

- There are two datasets to read, song dataset and log dataset. Song dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. The log dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

- The task is to use the song and log datasets and  create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes One fact table - songplays, and four dimension tables- users, songs, artists and time

# Explanation of the files in the repository

1. etl.ipynb: reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into your tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.
2. test.ipynb: displays the first few rows of each table to let you check your database.
3. create_tables.py: drops and creates your tables. You run this file to reset your tables before each time you run your ETL scripts.
4. etl.py reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into your tables. You can fill this out based on your work in the ETL notebook.
5. sql_queries.py contains all your sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above.
6. README.md provides discussion on your project.

# How to run the Python scripts

1. Create Tables:

- Write CREATE statements in sql_queries.py to create each table.
- Write DROP statements in sql_queries.py to drop each table if it exists.
- Run create_tables.py to create your database and tables. Run create_tables.py in Terminal: `python create_tables.py`
- Run test.ipynb to confirm the creation of your tables with the correct columns. Run file in Notebook. Make sure to click "Restart kernel" to close the connection to the database after running this notebook.

2. Build ETL Processes

- Follow instructions in the etl.ipynb notebook to develop ETL processes for each table. At the end of each table section, or at the end of the notebook, run test.ipynb to confirm that records were successfully inserted into each table. Remember to rerun create_tables.py to reset your tables before each time you run this notebook.

3. Build ETL Pipeline
- Use what you've completed in etl.ipynb to complete etl.py, where you'll process the entire datasets. Remember to run create_tables.py before running etl.py to reset your tables. Run test.ipynb to confirm your records were successfully inserted into each table. Run `python etl.py` in terminal 